History API and modals (#8)
slightlyoff/history_api: history_and_modals.md

# Web History and Modals

Modals are UI components that are layered on top of all other content and take

> my interaction focus. Some examples are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interaction focus. Some examples are:
```

- a `<dialog>` element, especially the [`showModal()` API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLDialogElement/showModal);
- a sidebar menu;
- a lightbox;
- a custom date picker dropdown.

There are some common implementation details that Web apps often apply to such
components:

- Trapping focus inside the modal;
- Intercepting mouse events outside the modal to disallow accidental clicks,
  and/or to close the popup;
- Sometimes, a popup may even prompt when a user attempts to close it, to ensure
  that all user data is saved;
- Intercepting <kbd>Esc</kbd> to close the popup;
- Intercepting the history Back button to close the popup, especially on
  Android.

The last point is most relevant to the Web History API: a popup may push a
non-navigational state into the history stack and close itself when this state
is popped.

As an extreme example, you can visualize a user filling in a 20 field form

> with the last item a date picker. A user may want to click the Back button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the last item being a date picker. A user may want to click the Back button
```

> hoping to close the date picker, but instead canceling the whole form because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hoping to close the date picker, but instead the back button cancels the whole form because
```

the date picker does not integrate with the Back button.

> However, the History API makes this a rather hard problem. Among the issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The History API makes handling back clicks for modals rather hard problem. Among the issues:
```
